Oh
hi I'm Sarah with DIY style and I'm
going to show you how to make a fun
summertime clutch it's made really easy
we actually just use two placemats and
then I've embellished it with some
crystals the supplies you will need are
magnetic purse snaps by clover a
water-soluble pen a tape measure the
buttonhole cutter
matching dual duty XP thread pins the
last thing is to place mats in a design
that you like to make your clutch your
first step is to lay one placemat on top
of the other making sure that all the
edges line up then divide the top
placemat lengthwise into thirds and mark
with your marking pen then holding the
two placemats firmly together fold the
edges up to the six inch mark to form
the pocket then press the fold so that
it stays flat for you to mark the
placemat for 1/2 of the magnetic closure
measure across the width of the clutch
and Mark the center which on ours it'll
be six and a half inches and then you
also want to measure up from the bottom
of the clutch to and 1/4 inches and then
with your marking pen just make a small
mark in the center remove the lining
placemat and set it aside
lay 1/2 of the magnetic closure right
over the marking of the placemat you
want that dot that you made to be in the
middle then with your marking pen mark
where the two prongs would go through
the fabric these will be your guide
about where to cut with the buttonhole
cutter now with the buttonhole cutter
make very small slits so that you can
get the prongs through then insert the
prongs through the placemat making sure
the prongs go to the wrong side lay the
back of the magnetic closure over the
prongs and fold the prongs to the center
now that lay the lining placemat back on
top of the other placemat refold the
pocket of the clutch back to its
original six inch measurement and at the
sewing machine stitch each side of the
pocket stitching from the fold to the
edge
on each side and make sure to reverse
stitch when you get to the ends
and make sure at the end to reverse and
reverse again because this part gets a
lot of pull to it now Stitch the other
side the same way next fold the flap of
the clutch over and Mark the placemat
for the second half of the magnetic
closure make sure when the flap is
folded over that about a fingers width
of room is left at the top only put the
holes through the lining piece and
you're just going to make the cuts the
same way as you did for the pocket
magnetic closure make sure when you put
the holes in the placemat that you only
do it through the lining piece you're
going to use the buttonhole cutter as
you did for the pocket magnetic closure
now that I've got my magnetic closure
attached to the top I'm ready for the
last step you will notice that when I
fold the placemats over they're not even
that's okay
just use it as a design element and
allow it to stand out on the front of
the flap at the sewing machine now you
want to stitch across the bottom edge
and then stitch up each side I'm just
going to add a couple pins to make sure
that I don't lose the unevenness of the
edges first I'm going to stitch across
the top of the flat now go ahead and
stitch up the other side as you did the
first one now my clutch is done be sure
to check out local home goods stores to
find other placemats so that you can
make other fun kulchas for the summer
you can also add heatset crystals to add
more sparkle to your clutch for more
sewing tips projects podcasts and blogs
from the creative chicks check out DIY
style net